>> Bianca Gandolfo: Gonna get right
into it with Stack and Queue.
So you've probably heard of a stack and
a queue before but
if not I'm gonna go over it a little bit.
So the properties of a Stack and
Queue are pretty similar.
They are an ordered data
structure that have opinions about
the order in which things can be
inserted and things can be removed.
So for a stack, the example everyone
uses is like a stack of plates.
You stack them on top of one another and
then you take the last one out.
So for a Stack,
the most recently added item is
also the most recently exited item.
Queue is the opposite,
the queue is what you would think of
as like waiting in line for something.
So you would stack it up and
then you would take from the bottom.
So you always take the oldest
item out of the queue.
And so these are fundamental
data structures that underlie
pretty much everything that we do.
We're parsing, strings,
your linter,
like I was saying that the call stack,
and the message queue,
which is in your JavaScript runtime.
That's what executes your code when you
load your browser or you run it in node.
So this is our Stack and Queue,
and if you're interested we have
some data visualizations here that you
can play with, they're secretly linked.
So you can push, you can see that
we're pushing and we can pop values.
So that's too small.
So as you can see we're for
a stack, we add, add,
add and then when we remove it,
we remove it from the end.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And you might notice
that this diagram looks like an array.
We can implement a stack using an array.
And probably you've been using stacks and
you didn't know.
If you've ever had an array where
you're interacting with it,
where you're only pushing and
popping, then you're using a stack.
And when you're in an interview, you can
say that it's an array, but you can also
say, I could use a stack for this, but
really you're just gonna use an array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then similarly
we have our queue visualization.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We enqueue.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Couple here.
Right, so the pushing part is the same.
But then it's the dequeuing that's
different so that the dequeue would be
the first one etc., like this.
And so this visualization
shows this array as sort of like this
continuous block of memory, right?
So in memory we have our
data next to each other.
In some languages you need
to pre-allocate memory.
In JavaScript we have something
called a dynamic array.
And so we don't need to think about
how long an array is gonna
be before we make it.
So a lot of these diagrams
that's how they're working.
But luckily in JavaScript, we don't
need to worry too much about that.
So one thing that could happen when you
are using an array is to underline data
structure and then you're pushing and
then unshifting.
All right, unshifting is when
you move from the beginning
is that if you want your array
indices is to be correct, so.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's requeue.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's clear it.
We'll enqueue a couple things.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
when we remove the first one, and
we want to ensure that our
array indices are correct.
We would have to shift the 2 to the 0,
the 3 to the 1, right?
If we were going to map these
to a particular indices.
So, when you're using an array
it's not optimized for unshifting.
I'm pretty sure that in modern browsers,
it's optimized now if you unshift.
It's not very expensive, like you don't
need to actually move things over.
So just keep that in mind.
If you talk about that in an interview and
you use something like unshift and
they ask you about time
complexity of unshift.
Then you could say it like typically,
it's a linear operation.
Which means that for every item in
this list, you're gonna need to do it.
You're gonna need to do some work.
That's the same of the length
of the number of items.
So that's n.
So if in this example, n is 2.
We have a length of 2.
So if we need to just shift it over,
we would need to two operations.
We shift over 2 and
we shift over 3, right?
If it was ten, it would be ten.
If it was 20, it would be 20, right?
So it grows when we call
in a linear fashion.
So, when it's ten it's not a 100, right.
That would be what we call quadratic
cuz we're multiplying them.
So linear,
we don't really multiply except for
really by one as we grow our input size.
And that's how we think
about time complexity.
We're not gonna talk about as in depth in
this class because I talked about it a lot
in the previous class, you can go and
check out those videos.
If you want more in-depth
explanation in like
kind of starting from the beginning,
building up.
We're just gonna talk about it
kind of as we're going through.
So, where were we?
Linear as our input grows, the number of
operations just grows with that input.
And typically, unshifting,
we would consider that linear, right?
Shifting it over each one.
However, that's not always the case,
depending on the implementation.
And as you can see, this implementation
keeps track of a head and a tail.
So when you dequeue everything,
you empty it and you enqueue it again.
It's using basic math to figure
out where to put these values,
versus it specifically
mapping to an index.
Why do we use them?
They're super fast at what they do.
So, it's supposed to be constant time for
all of those operations.
That's when people say, but
what about the unshift thing?
You could say, well,
often it's optimized in modern browsers.
Otherwise, you can implement
it with a linked list.
I just wanted to show you what a stack
might look like in actual code.
And this is just sort of like pseudo code,
where we have a stack, we're
representing in this case as an array.
We're gonna push something.
That's what it looks like after that.
When you pop it, it's gonna return five
and then our array looks like that.
Or our stack looks like that.
So that's kind of
the interface you can expect,
typical operations, and
then we have our queue.
Similarly, we add it to the end, but
when we dequeue, we're gonna return the 1.
And so another example of using a stack
is a back button or an undo button.
So that's going to pop off
the most recent changes.
And that is a common interview question,
it's like implement a back button or
an undo button.
So, something to think about.